FAQ

Who did this?

The basic version you can download now was created in-house by quid pro code Ltd. between November 2007 and July 2008. The development effort was lead by Gavin Wood.


Why did you do this?

We needed several aspects of functionality that would have been difficult to code in straight C++. Furthermore we were disappointed at the lack of innovation in free software development tools.


What is Martta?

Martta is a C++-based Extensible Quasi-Graphical Symbolic Meta-Language.


So it's a language?

Not really.

A language has an inate and fundamental grammar. Martta has no such thing.

First and foremost, it's a programming tool. It allows you to create and manage programming projects. It allows you to program in a language which is functionally on a par with C++. It allows you to save, load and create executables from your programs.

But it also allows you to alter the grammar of the language to suit your needs. It allows you to alter the methods of program input and program visualisation to suit your needs. It allows you to create complex program analysis and automated refactoring techniques.

It could be considered as having the flexibility, conciseness and performance of the C++ language, with development convenience, testability and power of manipulation over the subject matter as a visual-programming language. And it's extensible.


When you say "extensible" and "alter the grammar", what are the limits?

Well... none, really. Or that's the idea, anyway. Time will tell what the limits really are, but ultimately if there's a way around whatever limits we (accidentally) placed, we consider it a bug and hope to remove them ultimately. 


What is the significance of the name Martta?

Well, it makes abstraction really tough to avoid.


What license is Martta released under?

The collection of code that is the Martta download is separated into two parts; the core of Martta (known simply as Martta) and the support library. (MarttaSupport) The former is released under the GPL v3, with an added clause that lets you use proprietary plugins. 

The latter (i.e. MarttaSupport) is again released under the GPL v3, with an added clause that (essentially) allows quid pro code to allow proprietary projects link to it.

Both are explicitly designed to be GPL-v3 compatible and thus are 100% free software. When contributing patches however, we would ask that you license your code under the same license as the hierarchy to which it belongs (i.e. if you make modifications to MarttaSupport you wish to commit to the .


Can I create open source software with Martta?

As long as the code's license is GPLv3 compatible, yes. If you are unsure, please contact licensing@quidprocode.co.uk for a clarification.


Can I create closed source or proprietary software with Martta?

The licensing terms of MarttaSupport (which must be linked to any output for it to run) prohibit this. You will need to instead purchase the commercial edition of Martta; please contact licensing@quidprocode.co.uk for more information.


Can I create (and sell) proprietary plugins for Martta without restrictions?

Yes.


Where is the CVS/SVN repository?

Currently the only one is the quid pro code in-house repository. In due course (depending on the feedback we receive from the technology preview series) this will be opened or moved to a publicly-accessible domain.

